Audit logs (#11789)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/create/types/audit_logs.md

---
title: Audit Logs Monitor
kind: documentation

> description: "alert when a specified type of audit log exceeds a threshold"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Alert when a specified type of audit log exceeds a threshold."
```

further_reading:
- link: "/account_settings/audit_logs/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Audit Logs"
- link: "/monitors/notifications/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure your monitor notifications"
- link: "/monitors/downtimes/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Schedule a downtime to mute a monitor"
---

## Overview

> Audit Log monitors alert when a specified type of audit log exceeds a user-defined threshold over a given period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Audit Logs monitors alert you when a specified type of audit log exceeds a user-defined threshold over a given period of time.
```

## Monitor creation

To create an [Audit Logs monitor][1] in Datadog, use the main navigation: *Monitors --> New Monitor --> Audit Logs*.

### Define the search query

Define a search query for your Audit Logs. Search queries follow the same [search syntax][2] as in the Log Explorer.

> For example, if you want to be alerted when an API key is making a certain amount of requests, set `count by` to API Key ID, `@metadata.api_key.id`. You can then group by specific User ID, `@usr.id`, or User email, `@usr.email`, to receive a notification specifying which user is making the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to be alerted when a specific API key is making a certain number of requests, set `count by` to that API key ID, `@metadata.api_key.id`. You can then group by a specific user ID, `@usr.id`, or user email, `@usr.email`, to receive a notification specifying which user is making the request.
```

### Set alert conditions

> Set an alert threshold of greater than a certain value. For example, if you want to set the max amount of API requests to 15, set the alert threshold to `Alert threshold > 15`. Set the warning threshold to any number before 15 to receive a warning prior to a threshold being met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set an alert threshold for the value you want to be alerted on. For example, if you want to be alerted when the number of API requests reaches 15 or above, set the alert threshold for number of API requests to `Alert threshold > 15`. Set the warning threshold to any number before 15 to receive a warning prior to a threshold being met.
```

You can also choose to never resolve, or to automatically resolve, an event from a triggered state. Set a value between `[Never]` (default) and `After 24 Hours`.

### Say what's happening

Create a notification name. For example, `API requests threshold met for {{@usr.id}}`. You can use [template variables][3] to automatically populate a username, email, etc. in the title to quickly gain insight into which account or user is triggering an alert.

> Create a monitor message. This can include the steps required for team members to resolve an incident if it is occurring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a monitor message. This can include the steps required for team members to resolve an incident if one is occurring.
```

> You can then select a value from `[Never]` to `Every 24 Hours` to renotify if the monitor has not been resolved. You can also set tags and priority to better correlate data in the event of an incident.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then select a value from `[Never]` to `Every 24 Hours` to renotify you if the monitor has not been resolved. You can also set tags and priority to better correlate data in the event of an incident.
```

### Notify your team

> Select services and team members to notify. For example, alert your on-call Compliance team by Pagerduty, or alert your team by Slack or email to begin assessment of the alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select services and team members to notify. For example, you can alert your on-call compliance team with PagerDuty, or alert your team by Slack or email to begin assessment of the alert.
```
